hello and welcome Daniel pools how2guide
section in this video we will be
discussing how to replace a pool light
fixture this guide shows you how to
determine if you have a bad light
fixture and if so how to replace the
whole fixture including the wiring to
the fixture determine if the light
fixture is bad if your light
continuously
trips the GFI circuit there's a good
chance that it has developed a short in
the light fixture or wiring at this
point you will have to replace the whole
light fixture and wiring if you have two
lights tied together then you will have
to wire each light independently to test
which light is tripping the GFI before
working on your light fixture be sure to
turn off power to your lights at the
circuit breaker locate the power
junction box for your lights it will
normally be next to the house close to
the pool control box open up the
junction box and disconnect the wires to
your light you may have several light
cables coming into this box generally
they are all labeled on the PVC pipes if
not you may have to disconnect each
independently and turn the power back on
and off to see which cable powers each
light mark the pipes for the future once
you have determined which cable you want
to pull out attach a cord or special
fish tape to the wire one way to do this
is to bend back the white and black
wires to form a loop leave the green
ground wire out straight then attach the
cord through the loop the green ground
wire will parallel the cord as shown
tape the wire connection on both sides
of the joint so that no wire ends are
left exposed a smooth connection will
move around any bends in the pipe more
easily
remove the light fixture off the pool
wall
it is generally secured by one screw at
the top of the light fixture pull a
light fixture out of the niche you
should have enough excess cable to be
able to lay the light fixture on the
pool deck
note how the excess cable is stored in
the niche so you can replace it the same
way when you install a new Poe light
fixture pull the light cord out of the
pool wall there is a conduit between the
pool and the J box at the house when you
pull out the light cable at the pool
you'll be pulling the cable out of the
conduit and pulling through the cord
that you attach at the other end as you
are pulling cable on the light fixture
end have someone else feed the other end
of the wire and the attached cord down
into the pipe after you have pulled out
all the old cable you will expose the
connection of the cord and cable created
at the junction box once you have pulled
the old light cable out of the conduit
take off the cord that was pulled
through with the old cable and secure it
to the free end of the new light cable
hold a new light cable back into the
conduit by pulling on the cord at the
terminal box end of the conduit have
someone feed the cable into the conduit
at the back of the pool niche so that it
doesn't bind as you are pulling on the
other end
pull the cable through the conduit until
there is four feet of cable left to the
pool side this extra four feet will
allow you to place a light fixture on
the pool deck when you have to service
the light in the future position the new
light fixture in the niche by first
recoiling and storing the excess cable
then push the light fixture back into
the niche replace the single screw to
secure the pool light fixture to the
niche go back to the je box end of the
cable and cut off the extra length of
cable leaving about seven extra inches
use wire strippers to strip six inches
of the outer cable casing to expose
interior wires strip about one inch of
wire coating off each wire and attach
the cable wires to the appropriate wires
in the J box
replace the J box cover and secure it
with the screws removed in step three
turn the power to the lights back on at
the breaker box check the new light at
the pool to see it is operating properly
as always please remember to visit us
online at